Hi and welcome back.
In this video, we're going to be analysing
some regex expressions and having a look
at a few more examples.
If you can go to this website here regexer dot com,
at least I think that's how you say it,
could be totally wrong there.
This is going to allow us to run some regex,
try it out and see how it works, a bit better.
So if this looks slightly different,
don't worry, it sort of changes over time.
It looks a bit different than the last time I used it.
And what we're gonna do is how we look at what is here?
So I'm gonna close that there.
And if you wanna keep it open, you can do that.
By all means, you just click on this button here.
You've got a few menu icons here.
We're gonna look at them just a bit later.
But essentially what it says is,
"regexer is an online tool to learn build
"and test regular expressions."
So it's a pretty useful thing.
Then we have two main things.
We have some text and we have an expression.
Don't worry about the things here,
the slash, slash g, and stuff like that.
We will learn about those later on.
So do not worry about them.
We're gonna be typing our regular expressions
within the brackets.
You cannot type anywhere else.
So it's gonna be within these slashes, sorry.
And here we're gonna type our regular expressions.
And in here we're gonna type the text,
against which they're going to match.
So, for example, let's say we are looking
at this pattern that is charlie.
And we want to find out what regular expression
matches this text, this word here.
So we could do that.
The first regular expression that matches
a text is charlie.
So if you put the entire word, charlie, in there,
this shows you as a blue box, that these two match.
Down here in the tools section,
it tells you exactly why it's matching.
So you've got the character c,
which matches the character c.
Character h, which matches the character h, and so forth.
Because you've got all these characters in this order,
that matches exactly this word.
But of course, this is too simple.
So we can do something else.
Notice that if you type the character c in here
you match only the c.
If you only type the character h you're matching only the h.
You've essentially found, using this expression here
some text, some pattern, within this text.
In this case, the pattern you are looking for
is the letter h and you have been able to find it.
If you type p, notice how you don't
get any blue boxes here because the p
does not match any word or any letter in here.
So the next thing we could do is we could
type in one of our already known regular
expressions, the dot.
Notice that as soon as you type the dot
you get a lot of individual little boxes,
one for each letter.
That's because the dot matches any character
except the new line or the line break.
So what you've got is the dot matches the c.
The dot matches the h.
The dot matches the a.
But it doesn't match the word, because
the dot only matches one character.
If you wanted to match many characters,
you would use, for example, the star.
So you've got the dot star, which means
any of or zero or more of the dot.
And now notice how you get the box around the entire word.
So what we've done here is we have
now defined our regular expression pattern,
which says that we want to match,
in our text, anything any any amount of it.
So it matches all our text.
And indeed, if we add more text,
notice how it keeps matching.
It matches everything because the dot matches everything.
As soon as we put a new line in there,
the new content is not matched.
Because the new line character is not matched by the dot.
So the dot is going to match from the start,
as much as possible, until it reaches
a character that it cannot match.
And then it's going to signal the end of this pattern.
The next thing we can match is some characters.
So, for example, once again bring the example of charlie.
Notice how, as soon as we type charlie in here,
we get charlie matching.
Nothing else matches of course,
because this is the only instance of charlie we've got.
We can do, for example, a, b, or c.
So this is in square brackets, we've got a, b, c.
And what this is doing is it's matching
any of the characters inside the brackets.
So as you can see, the character set here
says it should match any character in the set.
So you've got c matching, you've got a matching there.
If we add a b here, the b matches as well.
So this is a range.
Of course, now that we're matching a, b, or c,
we can do, for example, a plus.
And that is going to match one or more of this set.
So if you have b, b, b, b, you are now matching
all of the b's as opposed to each one individually.
Notice that when I move the plus,
they now match, but they match individually
as opposed to all together.
When you add the plus, they match all together,
as a single thing.
Instead of a, b, c, we can select
all of the letters from a to c.
And notice how now, you match on all the letters
except the capital letters.
I'm going to delete these b's there.
You match all the letters.
You don't match the spaces.
You don't match the capital letters.
Notice how the letters all match individually.
If you add a to z plus, or a to zed plus,
depending on where you're from,
now you see the words start matching on their own.
Or at least the parts of the words here
start matching on their own.
So that's pretty cool.
Because now, if we were to run this regular expression
using Python, we could extract each word in our text,
which is quite nice.
If you wanted to match the capital letters as well,
you can do that, by just using a capital a there.
Now you're matching the capital letters as well
and you're matching the whole words.
What this is doing is this is a range.
So you're matching letters that go from
the capital a to lower case zed.
Notice how, down here it tells you
that these character codes are from 65 to 122.
So these are ascii character codes.
It just means that you're matching
all the letters in that range.
So that's a to z, right to zed in lower case.
And also a to zed in upper case.
So here's another example, if you type Jose,
a to zed plus, matches the entire word.
A to zed alone matches each character individually.
And if you put a dot in the middle,
you're matching J-O and S-E, but you're
not matching the dot.
Of course, if you then put the dot in here,
the back slash dot, now you are matching
anything in that range, or this dot, any number of that.
So, remember the square brackets
are a character set, so you're matching
any character inside the square brackets.
This is a range of characters that matches
a, b, c, d, e, f, g, blah, blah, blah, blah, up to zed.
And this much is the dot.
And you're matching any number of them.
If you put the dot in here, without the back slash,
you're matching anything.
So you no longer need these things.
Let's do that.
Let's look again at the emails.
Let's look at, for example jose@tecladocode.com.
Notice how a to zed back slash dot plus
matches the Jose because that is four
characters in this range.
And it matches tecladocode.com
because it's again, any characters in this range.
But it does not match the at symbol.
So, of course we could fix it.
We could say a to zed, plus and then the at symbol.
Because now we've got any character in here
a to zed or the dot.
Any number of those and then an at symbol.
But notice how now we're only matching Jose at
because that's the only thing that matches this.
If we put an at symbol here, now it matches the entire thing
because a to zed and the dot matches this,
the new at symbol has to match too.
So what can we do instead of that?
Well, we can add some more ranges here, a to zed plus.
And now we're matching Jose@tecaldocode
because we've got our first letter range here,
the plus, which says more than one,
the at symbol which matches exactly this at symbol.
And then we've got another range with a plus,
that matches another number of characters here,
but then we don't match this dot.
If we wanted to match the dot,
we would have to add the dot in there
and now it matches everything.
Now, if we wanted to only match
some of these TLDs, like for example,
dot com or dot net, we could do that,
but then we will have to restructure
our regular expressions, slightly.
Instead of doing that, we could do this.
Now the dot is outside this range,
so it's only included once.
And as soon as we reach that, we stopped
because this dot is outside the range.
So again, what we're matching, is a to zed or any dots,
any number of times.
And that's Jose.
We've got the at symbol, which matches the at symbol.
A to zed plus which matches any number
of letters at tecladocode.
And then we've got the dot which matches the dot.
Now we have to decide how to match the dot com.
So we can do, we can put a com.
And that will match of course, because we've got com there.
Or we can do, for example, com slash or pipe me.
So then it'll match dot com but it will also match dot me.
But it won't match dot net for example.
Notice how now nothing matches in this pattern.
This pattern does not match this at all.
As soon as we change it to me, though, it does match.
Because now Jose is here, at symbol's there,
tecladocode is there, the dot is there, and the me is here.
So what the pipe means is either of these two.
And what the bracket means, it just
allows you to capture things and combine them together.
So there's a lot more to regular expressions than this.
There are ways to match numbers.
There's ways to match addresses.
And these are very long and complicated regular expressions.
And I encourage you to play around
with this website, try a few things out.
And also, if you look at the menu, you've
got here a reference.
This can tell you a bit more about
the different things that you can
use in regular expressions.
And also, there's a cheat sheet that tells you
a bit more information about regular expressions.
Regular expressions will take a few hours
to cover comprehensively.
So it's not something that I think we wanna get into.
But of course, if you have any questions
or if you wanna match any specific patterns
and you don't know how, by all means
go ahead and ask, in the course q and a
or in the Slack channel.
And I'll be more than happy to help you.
As we progress through the course,
we're going to be using some more regular expressions.
And when we do that, we will look into them.
I just don't want to turn this into
a course for you to learn all about regular expressions.
Because I think that can be quite boring
for some people who just wanna continue
and do some programming.
Again, any questions, please come and ask me.
I'll be more than happy to help.
But other than that, let's move on.
We've understood a bit of what regular
expressions are about.
We can now start using them and really
understand them when we do that.
I'll see you in the next video.